if you feel cold when you sleep no
matter how heavy your duvet or comforter
is
try layering instead you may use less
heavy duvets than your usual one
but if you have two of them air gets
trapped between the layers keeping you
warmer the opposite works too
for whenever you feel too hot the
layering fails you even with light
weight sheets
opt for only one comforter to stay
cooler
another trick to sleep easily even
during the hottest night
is to sleep under a wet blanket insert
your own joke here
of course make sure you only use this
tip when you're overheated
one thing that should never be wet when
you go to sleep is your hair
not only can it cause hair damage and
extra tangling
it can also weaken your immune system
and even cause
dandruff in guatemala they have worry
dolls to help them sleep
whenever they're worried about something
they share their problems with a doll
and put that doll under their pillow
according to legend
these dolls carry all the troubles away
and help people sleep more soundly
if you put one under your pillow the
next morning you may wake up
totally unburdened if you tend to doze
off a bit after a hearty lunch
china may be the place for you there
people are allowed to have a nap at work
which makes it part of the corporate
culture
[Music]
in indonesia they practice a type of
sleep called
fear sleep this is where people have
learned to nod off in seconds to avoid
stress and anxiety
falling asleep instantly combats fear
and leads to calm
this might be why they say bally's one
of the happiest places in the world
at nighttime light is super
uncomfortable but in fact
you do need it to sleep well if you
don't have enough sunlight during the
day
it'll be harder to fall asleep later and
your sleep quality might be poor
a study revealed that two hours of light
exposure a day
increase the amount of sleep by two
hours
try to avoid blue light a few hours
before you go to sleep
most electronic devices such as tvs
laptops and smartphones
emitted blue light tricks your brain
into thinking it's still daytime
so you don't sleep well if you can't
fall asleep without scrolling your feed
you might want to download an app that
blocks blue light or
check your settings to be productive and
to not
miss anything leonardo da vinci used the
uberman sleep cycle schedule
he would only sleep for 20 minutes but
he would do this
every four hours they say it was a
secret to his productivity
one famous athlete confessed that to be
productive
they created a mountain environment by
decreasing the amount of oxygen
available
this way their body was forced to work
harder and produce more red blood cells
now that may seem extreme but this trick
helped this athlete
increase their endurance and show better
results
the mountain environment idea is a bit
extreme but you should be concerned
about your room's noise level
external noise which is often traffic
noise
may cause long-term poor sleep one study
showed that over half of participants
started getting better sleep as soon as
noise and light levels decreased
the bedroom temperature is essential too
70 degrees fahrenheit is comfortable for
most people
if it's too hot in the bedroom it may be
hard to fall asleep
and the sleep quality is likely to be
relatively poor one more great mind
nikola tesla wasn't much into sleeping
just like davinci
he stuck to the same ubermen sleep cycle
and never slept more than a couple of
hours a day
he once claimed to have been working for
84 hours in a row
some people split their day into two
parts it helps them get more things done
in 24 hours for example some former
presidents had two
shifts in a day they would wake up at
around 7am
work until 2pm and have an afternoon nap
at 4pm they would typically start the
second shift
working until the morning some people
need rituals to fall asleep
even as adults it can be whatever you
feel comfortable with
a couple of pages in a book some
relaxing music
or a glass of warm milk surprisingly
tin foil may dramatically improve the
quality of your sleep
some people simply use dark shades but
you can try wrapping tin foil around
your windows
it will reflect the unwanted light and
if the summer heat is unbearable
keep the heat away too some people claim
white noise helps them fall asleep
faster and sleep better
it's odd that a combination of audible
frequencies might help you sleep
but it works wonders for some if you're
munching a piece of gum
it can increase your productivity by
about 10 percent
if chewing gum is part of your daily
habits it may boost your cognitive
abilities
it can also lower stress hormones keep
you awake
and build up those masticating muscles
basically most berries contain
antioxidants that help increase motor
skills and work wonders for your memory
still the darker the berries are the
more antioxidants they contain
blueberries are a great choice the best
sleep you can get is at night
dull but if you can't help falling
asleep in the daytime
make sure to set an alarm for no more
than 20 minutes
another way to overcome daytime
sleepiness is to take a short walk
a glass of icy water can remove
drowsiness too
in case you need a nap during the day
make sure you take it
no later than 5 pm otherwise you may
find it difficult to fall asleep at
night
if back pain won't let you sleep on your
side a pillow can come to your rescue
put it between your legs to align your
hips it can ease the pain and help
reduce stress in your lower back
it works for knee pain too if you sleep
on your back
just tuck the pillow under your knees to
ease any discomfort
now watch out for caffeine it can keep
you energetic and disturb your sleep
remember it's not only coffee that
contains it even chocolate has some
small amounts of caffeine
but it can be enough to affect your
sleep it's better to avoid food for at
least one hour before you go to sleep
hearty meals can be too heavy for your
digestive system in the evening
if possible food in the evening should
be light
maybe a snack of milk or cheese
in fact a study showed that eating
breakfast for dinner
was really helpful for those who want to
fall asleep faster
bananas eggs toasts are packed with
potassium
protein and carbs respectively all these
elements can aid relaxation
and sleep try not to drink anything at
least two hours before bedtime
if you're tired of waking up in the
middle of the night to use the bathroom
sometimes it can be really challenging
to fall asleep again
cats and dogs are cuddly but sorry my
fluffy friends
beds are for humans only hey explain
that to my dog riley
pets can bring dander fleas a load of
fur pollen and other allergens
a vet or trainer might help you teach
your pet to sleep in their own bed
if you find it almost impossible to fall
asleep
you just might not be tired if you fail
to fall asleep
after 20 minutes try getting up and
doing something relaxing
listening to nice calming music will do